# 5. HOW TO BE A DEMANDING READER
## The Essence of Active Reading: The Four Basic Questions a Reader Asks

Ask questions while you read - questions that you yourself must try to answer in the course of reading.

1. WHAT IS THE BOOK IS ABOUT AS A WHOLE?

  discover the leading theme, how the author develops this theme in an orderly way by subdividing it into its essential subordinate themes or topics
2. WHAT IS BEING SAID, AND HOW?

  discover the main ideas, assertions, and arguments
3. IS THE BOOK TRUE, IN HOW OR IN PART?

  know what is siad -> understand -> decide
4. WHAT OF IT?

  significance of the info why author thinks it is important? what else to follow? further enlightment?

## How to Make a Book Your Own
marking a book:
1. keeps you awake
2. reading -> thinking -> express itself in words
3. help remember

devices:

1. UNDERLINING - of major poins, important / forceful statements
2. VERTICLE LINES AT THE MARGIN - to emphasize a statement already underlined or to a passage too long to be underlined
3. STAR, ASTERISK OR OTHER DOODAD AT THE MARGIN (sparingly) to emphasize the ten or dozen most important statements or passages in the book
4. NUMBERS IN THE MARGIN - indicate a sequence of points made by the author in developing an argument
5. NUMBERS OF OTHER PAGES IN THE MARGIN - indicate where else in the book the author makes the same points or points relevant to or in contradiction of those here marked; to tie up the ideas in a book, which though they may be seperated by many pages, belong together (Cf: "compare" .. "refer to")
6. CIRCLING OF KEYWORDS OR PHRASES - same function as underlining
7. WRITING IN THE MARGIN, OR AT THE TOP OR BOTTOM OF THE PAGE - to record the sequence of major points right through the book. personal inex of author's point. a record of your thinkin. out line the book as an integrated structure

## The Three Kinds of Note-making
questions answered by inspectional readings:

1. what kind of book is it?
2. what is it about as a whole?
3. what is the structural order of the work whereby the author develops his conception or understanding of that general subject matter?

* structural note making (on the content page)
* conceptual note making: give answers to questions about the truth and significance of the book
* dialectical note making: shape of the discussion, the discussion that is engaged in by all the authors

## Forming the Habit of Reading
rules -> follow -> habit -> art

## From Many Rules to One Habit
practice as separate acts
-> one goal
thinking about one's own thoughts
