# 7. X-RAYING A BOOK
__RULE 2: STATE THE UNITY OF THE WHOLE BOOK IN A SINGLE SENTENCE, OR AT MOST A FEW SENTENCES (A SHORT PARAGRAPH).__ to discover its theme main point apprehend the unity with definiteness -> express

__RULE 3: SET FORTH THE MAJOR PARTS OF THE BOOK, AND SHOW HOW THESE ARE ORGANIZED INTO A WHOLE. BY BEING ORDERED TO ONE ANOTHER AND TO THE UNITY OF THE WHOLE.__

## Of Plots and Plans: Stating the Unity of a Book
the mark of every good story, novel or play:

* a main thread of plot
* a single unity of action

ties everything together
--Aristotle, Poetics

title may help find out the unity of a ???

* how frequently you can expect the author help you to state the plan of his book
* a unity can be variously stated

## Mastering the Multiplicity: The Art of Outlining a Book

treating the parts as if they were subordinate wholes, each with a unity and complexity of its own.

formula:

1. The author accomplished this plan in five major parts, of which the first part is about .... fifth part ...
2. The first of these major parts is divided into three sections, of which the first considers X, ... the third considers ...
3. In the first section of the first part, the author makes four points, of which the first is A, ... the fourth is ...

these rules can be followed "approximately" for only a relatively few books
do not rely on chapter headings and sectional divisions passively

find how and why the main theme is stated as is by discovering the real structure

## The Reciprocal Arts of Reading and Writing
reciprocal rules followed in different ways

reader uncover ->

book skeleton     book

author cover up <-

A piece of writing should have unity, clarity and coherence (the distinction and the order of the parts).

THESE THREE RULES:

* can be used to distinguish well made books from badly made ones.
* can be used in reading any substantial part of an expository books, as well as the whole

## Discovering the Author's Intentions
__RULE 4: FIND OUT WHAT THE AUTHOR'S PROBLEMS WERE.__

state the main question that the book tries to answer / state the subordinate questions if the main question is complex and has many parts put questions in an intelligible order

intentional fallacy: fallacy of thinking you can discover what was in an author's mind from the book he has written

kinds of questions anyone can ask about anything:

* does something exist?
* what kind of thing is it?
* what caused it to exist or under what conditions can it exist or why does it exist?
* what purpose does it serve?
* what are the consequences of its existence?
* what are its characteristic properties, its typical traits?
* what are its relations to other things of a similar sort, or of a different sorts?
* how does it behave?

THESE ARE ALL THEOROTICAL QUESTIONS

* what ends should be sought?
* what means should be chosen to a given end?
* what things must one do to gain a certain objective and in what order?
* under these conditions, what is the right thing to do, or the better rather to do this rather than that?

THESE ARE ALL PRACTICAL QUESTIONS

## The First Stage of Analytical Reading
4 rules, 1 aim:

provide the reader with a knowledge of a book's structure

The First Stage of Analytical Reading or Rules for finding What a Book is About

1. Classify the book according to kind and subject matter
2. State what the whole book is about with the utmost brevity
3. Enumerate its major parts in their order and relation, and outline these parts as you have outlined the whole
4. Define the problem or problems the authors is trying to solve
